Hi, my name is John Jacquish. I am a
doctor of biomedical engineering which
gives me a unique perspective on a lot
of things. Today I have a very special
guest, Dr. Sha Baker,
[Music]
somebody I look up to, somebody who has
really changed the way I eat. He was my
inspiration to shift. I was already well
on my way with ketogenic nutrition, but
Dr. Baker just showed everybody, hey,
rip the band-aid off and just focus on
animal protein because that's really
what you're looking for. So, Dr. Baker,
thank you for joining us.
>> Yeah, thanks, John. And likewise, I
think we've known each other now what,
six or seven years, I think, something
like that. I can't remember when we we
first ran into each other, but yeah, I
mean the point you make about I I think
when we look at human physiology and you
if you took at like ketogenic diets and
you're like, well, what is the most
realistic ways humans would have
experienced that? I mean, it's clearly
they would have, you know, killed big
big old animals and ate them and that's
kind of what we we still do and and I
think it works really well. But yeah,
and likewise, it's it's impressive what
you've been able to accomplish over the
years with uh getting people to think a
little differently about how we train as
well, which is,
>> you know, my my as much as I'm known for
talking about nutrition, honestly, I
prefer to talk about athletics and
sports and getting faster and stronger
and and all those types of things.
That's what my I really enjoy the most.
But I I still have quite a bit to say
about nutrition and thoughts around that
as well, particularly as it impacts
performance and other things and health
in particular. I one of the things that
I appreciate the most about your
approach is the whole like
don't worry so much about what your
blood work looks like. Can you perform?
Because you a body that's sick can't
perform. So, like just because something
might not look quite right on a on your
blood work, but you're able to sprint
and lift and you have normal
gastrointestinal function and you don't
have sky-high blood pressure. Like those
are those are some of the performance
metrics, you know, they carry a higher
value. Is is that a good
characterization?
>> Yeah, I don't think you should flat out
just ignore labs, but you have to put
them in context. You know, you have to
say, hey, look, this could be a problem.
Is there a clinical rationale or a
clinical correlate to what's going on
there? And this is how you should
contextualize any lab. You know, as a
physician, you know, you could look at a
set of labs and and say, "Oh, the
patient's fine or the patient's not."
But then if you actually examine the
patient and then, you know, and then if
we expand examination into the ultimate
level, which is performance, there are
very few worldclass athletes that are
not in general healthy. You could argue,
you know, there there's there's things
are going on in the long term, but in
general, these are going to be well
functioning people. they're not going to
be acutely sick and to be able to
perform at that level. And I think if
you can continue to perform at high
levels as you age, that is I mean it's
it's interesting. I I get a lot of
people that tell me, "Hey, you shouldn't
be pushing yourself so hard cuz you're
old, you know, you're almost 60 because
that's associated with young people."
And I said, "Well, that see that seems
to be the point, right? If if I can
continue to push myself at a hard at a
high level and hard and you know jump
high, run fast and all those things,
then in a sense I'm still kind of a
young person in a in a way, right?
>> Also, all of the literature on the
subject indicates that the stronger and
leaner you are, the longer you live. And
that's,
>> you know, those are those are some
metrics that are uncontested. A lot of
lot of things in medical and physiology
research have evidence supporting
different maybe conflicting conclusions,
but being strong and being lean, those
are pretty rock solid. Like if you're
strong and lean, your chances of living
a longer life are better and your
quality of life is better.
>> Yeah. Absolutely. No, I don't think
there's very many people that can
credibly dis dispute that.
>> Right. So on on the subject like my
approach to training and you and I
talked about this and we we were in
Budapest together and we talked for like
you know hours and days and in in
brought lava over this this past summer
which was a whole lot of fun. I don't
know how productive we were but it was a
whole lot of fun. The so like one of the
things with variable resistance it's
more approachable for more people.
There's a lot of people who are
apprehensive about strength training and
there's even more people who did
strength train when they were younger
and you know may maybe when they're past
30 or something like that they think oh
you know I've I've had an injury or two
I don't want to have another injury so
I'm going to stop training with high
intensity I'm going to stop training
with high levels of force and one of the
things that variable resistance does is
it makes putting heavy loads through the
body a lot more approachable and a lot
safer
following that same line of logic and
yeah I I kind of getting you cold though
I did warn you a little bit about what I
what I wanted to talk about today the
a lot of people coming to me and talking
about GLP agonist peptides and at first
I was like oh you know just clean up
your diet like you don't you don't need
these things and something forced me to
change my mind a little bit partially
it was this whole experience with Lizo
and Lizo she was on she was taking GLP1
and she was trying to be a vegan and so
she was eating all kinds of fake meat
which is just toxic crap and she was
feeling awful and she was losing muscle
and her doctor said just eat real meat
like that's on a GLP1 drug your appetite
is so low the problem that people are
having is not that the GLP is damaging
muscle it's that people lose their
appetite So they just eat kind of
whatever they want and that ends up
being like candy and you know awful
stuff and then they then they don't have
the nutrients to survive and so her
doctor said just eat meat. So, she
switched to a meat only diet and or at
least that was what she was doing when
she cycled I don't know what she's doing
now, but when she cycled off of the
peptide, she kept eating only meat. And
so now she feels like she doesn't need
it any because she doesn't have the
appetite.
So,
I think that these GLP-1 peptides, they
they have a a feature, which is if
you're going to do them,
you really have to move towards a
carnivore diet because otherwise you're
going to really compromise your health.
So I I I find it funny where mainstream
medicine is saying, "Oh, meat's bad for
you." But if you take one of these GLP
peptides, you need to eat all meat
because you really need to make sure you
get those nutrients. So in a way, it's
like exposing how misleading, maybe
dishonest they've been. But then I came
across something even Oh. Oh, yeah. And
in the middle here, I I tried it.
There's there's a new GLP3
peptide. I think the brand name is
reatride, but just generically it's it's
it's GLP3. So, it has three mechanisms.
And the part of the reason that that
seems like it's a better idea is because
there's three different ways that it is
affecting your appetite and your burning
of fat that you have a lower dosage. And
so I tried 1 milligram which is a micro
dose of the GLP3
and it was like any like I have great
willpower and you've hung out with me
for extended periods of time multiple
days you've seen it. You have better
willpower though. What I what I saw was
that things like a 5day fast which is
something that I like to do. All I
consume is six doses of Foraggen, you
know, the essential amino acid complex.
And that's just how I get ready for a
photo shoot or drop drop body fat. And I
would say it would normally be on an 8
out of 10 difficulty, whereas with that
1 milligram of GLP3,
it became a 2 out of 10. And I thought,
"Oh man, anybody can do this." like this
was easy.
And then after we spoke and scheduled
this this time to talk, I came across
something else which I found very
interesting. It was somebody who was
complaining about the the problem with
these GLP agonists is
they lose the ability to upregulate
dopamine when they eat. And it's like
the point is like you don't have any
pleasure in life if you don't have any
dopamine when you eat. And I mean as as
soon as this guy said it, I thought
you shouldn't look for an orgasmic
experience in your food. And the fact
that you do
is just straight up because food has
been engineered to be addictive.
And I see that as a positive. like you
should look at food as fuel.
Like I don't, you know, say, "Well, I'm
not going to Chevron. I only go to Exxon
because I think they're gasoline is
nicer." I, you know, I mean, it's just
like it's it's just who has 91 octane?
That that's my question. So, and it's
like it's like who has steak? That's
where I'm going for dinner. And now that
these these peptides are out,
I don't know if I want to go so far as
to say I recommend them because I mean,
first of all, I'm not a medical doctor.
You are. I'm a researcher, so I don't
recommend anything. But I will say that
my experience
was incredibly positive. And for
somebody who needs to disassociate
pleasure from food, which I think should
like absolutely needs to be done,
it's positive. What are your thoughts?
Like I mean, if you think I'm just being
nuts, tell me.
>> No, I mean I got I got a number of
thoughts on on a lot of those things. So
yeah, I mean absolutely. You know, I I I
talk to people that the only pleasure
they get out of life is what they show
in their mouth because their life is,
you know, they just you know, they've
got nothing else going on. So they they
can they can go to the grocery store,
order Uber Eats and get some kind of,
you know, sugary treat delivered to
their house and that's how they get
their only small amount of joy they get
in their life. And so that's obviously a
problem with that. You know, the the the
GLP3 which is, you know, it's going to
be GLP-1, GIP, which is gastric
inhibitory peptide, and then glucagon is
going to be very powerful. I mean, it's
going to have a powerful effect. It's
going to it's going to suppress the
appetite in many ways and through a
number of different mechanisms. So the I
I guess the concerns I have and again
whether you want to decide to take this
or not are obviously I think you should
maximize lifestyle as much as possible
regardless regardless if you're going to
do this or not that should be that
should just be a given on everybody.
Everybody should be resistance training.
Everybody should be eating an adequate
amount of protein because we know any
weight loss, whether it's fasting,
whether it's drugs, whether it's gastric
bypass, whether it's whatever diet, you
tend to lose muscle if you don't
proactively avoid that. So, this would
be a a great use case for X3 or some
other form of resistance training as
well as adequate protein in there. And I
guess the concern would be, you know,
obviously if you're micro doing this,
the effect is going to be just maybe to
take the edge off. There are going to be
people that will take much higher doses,
maybe prescription doses, which would be
associated with typically higher side
effect rates. You know, some of those
can be pretty severe for for let's just
be honest, there are a lot of people end
up in the ER with these drugs. I mean, I
talk to ER physicians all the time and
they say, "Yeah, we got a lot of people
in there with a lot of gut issues." I
think the concern I would have about
over is using particularly over the long
term is then you either lose you know
you said it was eight out of 10
difficulty to do a fiveday fast with
with you know protein you know you know
protein sparing modified fast basically
>> right
>> and now you can make it a two so now if
you don't utilize it maybe it now
becomes a 10 out of 10 difficulty and
then maybe using it becomes a four you
know I mean there's there may be a
gradual dependence upon these things and
to be honest I mean these drugs are
for for that very reason. I mean, these
drugs are not to be taken one off. There
there's I mean, if you look at the drug
manufacturer, Eli Liy or whoever the
other, you know, makes makes the Zimpic
one, their goal is to get you to take it
for the rest of your life and and
indication is obesity. Now, you're not
obese. I mean, you know, you're not
suffering from obesity. I mean, it's not
>> No, I mean, you're you're clearly lean
most of the time or leaner compared to
most people in the general population,
certainly for people in your age. As a
mom, I
>> said most of the time. Well, I mean, you
know, I mean, it's it's it's I mean, you
know, we all have a little bit of
fluctuations here and there. I I'm
currently in a phase where I'm trying to
get down a little bit leaner as so I can
perform better as an athlete, but yeah,
I mean, I guess it would just be, you
know, you're you're doing all the right
things already, you know, so some of the
some of the and most people aren't. Most
people that take these drugs, you know,
are obese and and the reason they're
obese is because they haven't done the
right thing over over a number of years
probably. So they don't have good
exercise habs, they don't have good
dietary habits, they probably don't have
good sleep or other lifestyle habits.
And so when you depend on a drug to do
it by itself, you know, you're going to
probably end up with with more
likelihood of side effects, problems.
You're probably going to have incomplete
results. Uh and you know, and I don't
know what GLP3 costs right now.
Obviously for you, it's probably not
cost is not a big concern, but for a lot
of people, it's a concern. If you're if
you're shelling out a,000 bucks a month
for a GLP-1 drug um over time and and
and you got to take it for the rest of
your life, maybe it's 30 years. That's a
lot of money that goes into that. So,
we'll see. I mean, we'll see.
>> Yeah. Go ahead. What's that?
>> I said that's why they did it.
>> No, of course. I mean, of course, that's
why they developed the drug. I mean,
they don't they don't there's no drug
that comes to the market where they
don't know what the projected profit is
going to be. It just doesn't exist.
So yeah, for the way I decided that I
was going to apply this was micro dose
for just a short period of time and then
you know like it's not in me anymore.
That was weeks ago. Uh
>> yeah, I'm I'm interested because you you
you've done you just one time was just
one one attempt and that was it. Okay.
>> Yeah. But I mean the next photo shoot
like I mean I'm I'm still
>> No, I mean but that was that was for a
discreet period of time. It's like I'm
going to I'm going to That's like in
conjunction with doing a a a sort of
modified fast five, seven days, one
dose. Does it facilitate that that
activity?
>> I'm sure it does. I mean, you know, it's
just cuz you're doing it. You're going
to do it one way or the other. It's just
how how much how much suffering you're
going to you're going to you're going to
withstand while you do it. Now, if it's
like I'll do that once, you know, a
couple times a year, um you know, hey,
whatever.
>> Yeah. I guess the pro the problem I have
is like you know with any with any drug
you know when you when you when you put
whe whether it's you know you know
anything you put in your body your body
adapts to it it has to I mean it adapts
to it you know with certain like you
know diabetics who go on insulin you
know when you start taking insulin your
own insulin production is downregulated
>> uh testosterone testosterone production
is downregul I mean we know all the
deals I mean you you your body will
adapt to this over time so I think it's
best use case in in in my you, you know,
obviously I would love to have everybody
getting stronger, everybody eating well.
That would be the that would be the the
optimal scenario, but that just doesn't
exist. That's that's the 1% of the
population actually does the right
things, and you're in there. So, you're
less likely to develop the side effects,
less likely to develop the dependence
that a lot of people find, you know, cuz
I I do think there's going to be some
people that are going to they're going
to find that I just can't manage it
without these drugs, you know. I think
you're going to see some of that. is the
the the way I'm talking about it and and
anybody who who's watching this video,
the mindset that I believe you should
have like you don't want to be on a
peptide or hormone. I mean, yeah, I'm on
TRT and like, you know, the new TRT
product I'm working on is fast acting.
It's only in your system an hour and the
reason is to stop the body from adapting
to it.
>> Yeah. So yeah, like I I completely get
that and I I think the the purpose of
what I'm talking about is so that people
can say like maybe I can use this to
build better habits. I think the the
punchline
disassociate
pleasure from eating. Eating is fueling.
It's not an orgasm.
Yeah, a lot of people, you know, a lot
of people don't want to do that. I mean,
they they they they I mean, well, I
mean, I guess if if nutrition was it was
equal and adequate. I would rather enjoy
my meal than not enjoy my meal, you
know? I mean, I would like to like I'd
like at least taste good, you know? I
don't think I have any trouble with
that. I eat a bunch of meat and it
tastes good to me and I like it. I enjoy
I I actually enjoy eating but it isn't
it isn't where I get my joy from life so
to speak where some people certainly do
do that or where it's like as I said at
the beginning that's the only joy they
get which is really a sad commentary in
someone's life if that's the only way
you can get pleasures by what you shove
in your mouth
you know I I wonder because some of the
criticisms are you know that you have
you you have this anhedonistic sort of
property that you get no pleasure in
anything you know with some of these
drugs and it's like I don't enjoy
anything in my life. I can't get I don't
I don't know what how it directly
impacts the dop dopaneric um system to
if it downregulates it totally so that
there's no joy in anything you know you
you lose interest in li you know no
libido no
>> you just don't want to do anything
you're just kind of like
>> yeah I didn't have that problem
>> yeah no I can
>> but I it was a micro dose also and it
was only for one week and I think that's
like
what I'm talking about is not what it's
typically being used for. But I think
this is a better approach because the
idea is you want to succeed without it.
>> Well, yeah. I mean, you should be I
mean, again, I I look at like a lot of
these things as and and it's the same
thing with with getting in shape. It's
like if you if you're getting if you're
chasing the latest fad and you're not
sticking to the basics, you know, I
mean, it's just like you do the basics
well, you sleep, you know, you're not
sedentary, you get some exercise, you
some strength training, you have a you
have a diet that includes plenty of high
quality nutrition, including decent
amounts of protein, you manage your
stress, you get some sunshine. You do
that consistency over time, you're going
to get 98% of the way there. And these
things are these 1 to 2% hacks for those
people that really, you know, want to
want to do something a little beyond,
you know, like like I said, walking
around at sub 10% body fat is just not
normal. I mean, it's not even normal
human physiology in my view. You know,
there's we always see those few people
that walk around like that completely
without effort and it just pisses you
off. You're
there's a few of those guys. But but for
for most of us, myself included, I mean,
it's it it takes some discipline for
sure.
Yeah, thanks man. Like this is good.
Yeah, this is exactly the perspective
that I wanted. And you know, also
when you try something and you're
excited about it and you talk about it,
there's a little bit of like, am I being
crazy here? like did I jump into this
and like not really consider all the
the full impact of everything that this
could be. And I I probably did a 100
hours of reading on it.
>> Yeah, there's I mean there's a lot of I
see a lot of people within the high
performing fitness communities,
bodybuilding communities talking about,
you know, GLP3s or
>> Reddit True Tide as as as something
they're using. It's it's it's clearly
the most powerful of these classes of
drugs that have been developed up to
this point as far as I'm I'm aware of
that's that's widely available. Um and
and and probably down the road there'll
be more of these drugs and there'll be
more effective drugs and so on and so
forth. You know, this the question is I
don't think again it I don't think it'll
ever obviate the need to do the basics
though and and that's and you know it's
it shouldn't be hard. It is hard for a
lot of people because it's we get so
distracted in in and so many other
things and uh you know that's that's
what I mean our company my company
Rivera I mean we literally hold people's
hand and hold them accountable 24 hours
a day we're constantly calling people up
talking to them engaging with them so
that they can just do the basics right
obviously like I said you're you're at a
level where you've done the basics for
you know decades now and it's just like
how do you uh keep keep going because I
think you know like I said as I as
uh soon cross over into my 60s. I want
to be I still want to be at the top of
my game, you know, is is is and so I'm
doing all this other stuff that most
people just don't want to do. Most
people don't want to go out to the track
and jump around and hop around and
sprint and bound and you know and and
get stronger and, you know, do all that
stuff. Most most people don't want to do
it and and not, you know, smoke and
drink and stay out late and all that
stuff. It's
>> Yeah,
>> it's tough to I don't think it's tough
to do, but most people just don't want
to do that for some reason.
Well, they probably have fun smoking and
drinking.
>> Yeah, they do. Well, of course they do.
I hope they do at least.
>> Yeah. Yeah. From the philosophy of
performance, I I've noticed picking your
friends
who also make good decisions.
>> Yeah,
>> that's huge.
Is I mean, I know if I go out to dinner
with you, you're not going to peer
pressure me into like having a couple
bottles of wine.
>> No, you're not.
>> You're just not going to do that. No,
not an internet. And and you know, I get
it. I mean, it's just like, yeah, I just
don't hang out with people that I think
are going to bring me down physically,
mentally, whatever, spiritually,
whatever it is. You just want to be
around people that maybe you want to
emulate or at least will
drive in a positive direction, you know?
I mean, I get I get it. We all want to
have fun from time to time, but I mean,
at the end of the day, you know, it I
don't know. I mean, I don't know where
when I cross that threshold, but I just
don't do well with, you know, abusing my
body anymore. It it just it just not a
it's not an option that appeals to me at
all in any way. Same. And and also, if
you want to intermittently just go out
and have a good time, if you stop
smoking and drinking
and then you go do it,
>> Yeah. you know, once every six months,
your tolerance has changed. You have
like a beer and you're like, "This is
what beer does now." Wow.
>> Yeah. I mean, you do build up a
capacity, you know?
>> Yeah. And then, you know, and then it's
like your your digestive system is only
dealing with like a tiny amount of
alcohol,
>> a tiny amount of carbohydrates,
>> you know? So, it's just that's just the
better way to be. Like, even if you do
that once every six months, like, nah,
it's not going to be a problem.
Yeah. The other thing I find and this is
I truly believe this in my heart that
you know I you know as a guy who's like
I said almost 60 I function at a pretty
high level. I mean I I feel pretty good.
I think a lot of it has to do with the
fact that I engage in in in regular
training. I think the second I stop that
I'll age like dramatically. I mean it's
it's like my quality of life will will
crater very quickly cuz you see I mean
you what do we always see? We see these
people that that look pretty good, you
know, throughout a lot of their life,
you know, 50, 60, 70, and then, you
know, you see them a few years later and
they look like they've aged two decades
in in a short time span. And I I'm
convinced that probably has to do with a
dramatic, you know, just change in
lifestyle. And I think that's, you know,
you know, if you get an injury or
something like that or you just lose the
desire to push yourself, I think you
just you you're you're going to initiate
aging and it'll it'll happen very it's
almost like one of those like science
fiction movie where the guy's taking the
anti-aging serum and then it runs off
and then all of a sudden they they age
like 50 years in like 15 minutes. I I do
think that occurs and I think what the
anti-aging serum in my view is, you
know, getting after it, you know,
staying staying strong, fit, and eating
well and and sleeping well. And then the
second you stop that, you know, I think
you're going to age quickly.
>> Yes. Hey, movie recommendation based on
what you just said. You ever seen The
Substance?
>> I have not, but my daughters were
telling me about that movie. I remember
them telling me about it and they were
really, you know, they were really
kind of freaky. Kind of a freaky movie.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. Oh, Dave, you got a weak stomach.
>> I don't have a weak stomach. I've seen
it sit in real life, but
>> you need to see it. It's excellent. It's
an excellent uh substance social
commentary.
>> Okay.
>> On beauty standards and aging. Not more
focused on women, but they're a lot
harder on themselves than we are.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, hey, thanks for
>> awesome. Yeah, John. Yeah, I got I got
to run. I got another appointment I got
to get to. But it's good good always
talking to you and I look forward to
seeing you in person again next time.
I'm sure we'll run into each other at
some point. All right. So, keep up the
good work and uh
>> we'll do this again again if not
virtually in person. Thanks, Sean.
>> Awesome. Thanks, Sean.
>> If this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.